# bikesharing
Completed Tableau Story is found in the link below. 

[link to dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/emery.hollar/viz/bikesharing_Challenge_16547192482350/CitibikeAnalysis?publish=yes)

## Overview
The main purpose of the citibike analysis is to convince investors that a bike sharing program is a solid business proposal for the city of Des Moines, Iowa. The main goal of the analysis is to show the investors the length of time the bikes are checked out on average and to what gender they are mainly checked out to. Also, which day of the week is most common at what time, as well as the location of where the bike trips started and ended in our sample city, New York, so we can plan where best to place the bikes in Des Moines. 

## Results
As seen in the first image, the average time a bike is checked out by a user is fairly short, with the most bikes being checked out for only 5-6 minutes. In the next image, we can see that the vast majority of users of the citibikes in NYC are males, so the majority of our advertising should be focused on the male audience. Femailes equate for a much smaller amount of checkouts, with Unknown gender equating for the least amount of checkouts. Next, we can see via the heatmap that the majority of checkouts occur for the most part in 3 occurances. Saturdays, and M-F at 8am and 5pm. A simple analysis of this heatmap shows that people use these bikes mainly in NYC to commute to and from work during the week and then for a joy ride on the weekends. In Des Moines, our consumers will most likely use the bikes for pleasure, so it is good to see that Saturdays are a very popular day for bike trips. The next heatmap goes into more detail about the genders and we find that the majority of the citibike business comes from males commuting to and from work on M-F. The next hatmap shows the variation of trips by gender per day of the week. Overall there is not too much discrepancy in the trips per day, but Sunday has the least use and Thursday has the most use. A deeper analysis is needed for the final two maps; however what the data shows is wehere the most popular start and stop locations are for citibikes. We can use this data to figure out where in Des Moines the bikes will be of best use. Wheteher it is at the center of downtown, or next to parking garages, depending on where the locations are in NYC. 
